WIP: try to define what an SCS release is (#1157)
SovereignCloudStack/standards: Drafts/Release-Policies.md

or: What does a release mean in the SCS world?

## Definition

An SCS Release is an annual attestation that a curated set of third-party
open-source modular software stacks have been validated as a reliable basis for

> building and operating a "Certified SCS-compatible IaaS" environment. The SCS

Reviewer: ```suggestion
building and operating "SCS-compatible IaaS" or "SCS-compatible KaaS" environments. The SCS
```

Since the Releases are more than just IaaS. Furthermore I would just stick to SCS-compatible without the certified, since the releases can also be used to build environments that are not meant to be certified that want to be compatible whatsoever.

project does not ship or maintain the attested software itself — instead, each
release represents a quality endorsement of a known-good combination of upstream
projects. Providers are free to use any software they choose; an SCS Release
does not limit or prescribe those choices, but serves as a reference signal for
what has been tested and validated by the SCS community. The following three
pillars define the criteria that MUST or SHOULD be met for software to be
included in an SCS Release:

### Pillar 1: Real-world Production Deployment (MUST)

To be attested in an SCS Release, a modular software stack MUST be in active
production use in at least one provider environment that holds a valid

> "Certified SCS-compatible IaaS" certification at the time of the release. This

Reviewer: ```suggestion
"Certified SCS-compatible IaaS" or "Certified SCS-compatible KaaS" certification at the time of the release. This
```

ensures that the attestation is grounded in real-world, production-grade
deployments rather than theoretical compatibility.

### Pillar 2: Compliance Documentation (SHOULD)

For each modular software stack included in an SCS Release, there SHOULD be
comprehensive documentation covering the implementation-specific configuration

> necessary to achieve and maintain "Certified SCS-compatible IaaS" compliance.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
necessary to achieve and maintain "Certified SCS-compatible IaaS" or "Certified SCS-compatible KaaS" compliance.
```

This documentation SHOULD be sufficiently detailed to allow a skilled operator
to reproduce a compliant deployment based on the documented modular software
stack.

### Pillar 3: Automated Integration Testing (SHOULD)

Automated testing pipelines that validate the full modular software stack used

> to deliver a "Certified SCS-compatible IaaS" environment SHOULD exist at the

Reviewer: ```suggestion
to deliver a "Certified SCS-compatible IaaS" or "Certified SCS-compatible KaaS" environment SHOULD exist at the
```
